		      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
		       AWS ELASTIC LOAD BALANCER

				 Kiran
		      ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


Table of Contents
─────────────────

Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)
.. An overview of Load balancing
.. Layer 4 vs Layer 7
.. AWS Elastic Load Balancer





Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)
═══════════════════════════

An overview of Load balancing
─────────────────────────────

  Load balancing is the process of distributing a set of tasks over a
  set of resources such as Virtual/Physical Machines or containers, with
  the aim of making their overall processing more efficient.

  Load balancing can optimize the response time and avoid unevenly
  overloading some compute nodes while other compute nodes are left
  idle.

  Load balancers are an important component of creating Highly available
  and fault tolerant distributed computing systems.

  Load balancers improve the overall performance of applications by
  decreasing the burden on servers in charge of managing and maintaining
  [Oapplication and network sessions, and those that perform
  application-specific tasks.



  <file:/opt/lab/Tech_Pics/DevOps/LB_Example_Elastic_Cluster.png>

  There are two kinds of Load balancing algorithms:

  • Static Algorithm: Follows a set of predefined rules without taking
    into consideration the state of the different target/backend
    machines.

  • Dynamic Algorithm: As the name suggests, dynamic algorithms
    understand the current state of the target machines and distribute
    traffic accordingly.



  Load balancing can be acheived by different set of hardware. Load
  Balancing can be done by a Physical or Virtual Machine running a
  reverse-proxy server software such as `Nginx' or `HA-Proxy'. Or this
  can be done with a dedicated device such as `F5' Load balancer or
  `Citrix Netscaler'.


Layer 4 vs Layer 7
──────────────────

  Load balancing can happen at layer 4 or layer 7 of the [OSI Model] .


[OSI Model] <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model>

Layer-4 Load Balancing:
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Layer 4 load balancing operates at the intermediate transport layer,
  which is responsible for delivering messages regardless of the
  content.

  Layer 4 load balancers simply forward network packets to and from the
  upstream server; they cannot look into the the contents of the network
  packets.

  They can only make limited routing decisions by examining the first
  few packets in the layer 4 (TCP).

  Layer4 LB is useful in simple packet levle loadbalancing, where
  advanced routing decisions need not be taken.

  It is faster than Layer 7 load balancer as it can't inspect the
  contents of the network packets.


Layer-7 Load balancing
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Layer 7 load balancing operates at the high-level application layer,
  which is responsible for the actual content of the message.

  Layer 7 load balancers route network traffic in a more complex manner,
  usually applicable to TCP-based traffic like HTTP.

  Unlike Layer 4, a Layer 7 load balancer terminates the network traffic
  and reads the message within.  It makes a decision based on the
  content of the message. Afterwhich, it makes a new TCP connection to
  the selected upstream server and writes the request to the server. It
  can also cache, layer 4 isn't capable of doing so as it


AWS Elastic Load Balancer
─────────────────────────

Overview:
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌

  Elastic Load Balancing automatically distributes incoming application
  traffic across multiple targets: EC2 instances, containers, IP
  addresses, Lambda functions, and virtual appliances.

  It can handle the varying load of your application traffic in a single
  Availability Zone or across multiple Availability Zones.


  Elastic Load Balancing offers four types of load balancers that all
  feature the high availability, automatic scaling, and robust security
  necessary to make your applications fault tolerant.


ALB
╌╌╌

  LB –> Listener (Port/Protocol) –> Target Groups (ec2, IP, ECS)

  Health check on Target Groups

  Limits 50 listeners per LB

  100 Target Groups per Load Balancer, 3000 Targets in a Target Group


Security
╌╌╌╌╌╌╌╌
